SOURCE_URL: (manual download - Jerusalem Photographer Reviews - Why Book With Us.html)
--------------------------------------------------
Jerusalem Photographer Reviews - Why Book With Us
arrow_right_alt
Back to all cities
“ Jonny is knowledgeable, professional, and fun.  He did a great job directing our kids and us to get good shots.  He is also a tour guide, so we learned a lot as we walked about the city.  We truly over delivered.  We will definitely contact him next time we go to Jerusalem. ”
“ We had a great time with Jonny. The shoot was easygoing, fun and at the same time Jonny shared with us some history. He took us through streets and other nooks & crannies of the Old City in Jerusalem which we loved.
It was great. Thank you, Jonny! We truly enjoyed it! ”
“ Johnny was amazing, professional, patient, helpful, and very accommodating. Would recommend over and over. ”
“ Jonny is much more than just the guy who runs the camera - he makes it easy to look great it photos! I bought this package for family pics with my daughter and son-in-law who were visiting me in Israel. My daughter has a critical eye for photography and I generally dislike having my photo taken, so together we can be pretty complicated to photograph. Jonny made the experience most enjoyable - leading us through the streets of Jerusalem to amazing locations and throwing in bits of history and trivia along the way - and the photos turned out great! I would certainly do this again and recommend Jonny to all. ”
“ Our photographer was incredible. He was completely flexible, responsive, and he had a great plan of where we could go that created beautiful shots. I honestly could not have be more delighted, and I would recommend him to anybody looking to do a photo shoot in Israel. ”
“ Jonny was great to work with in every way.  We were a big group including teens and he managed us very well...kept everything moving along.  It was so much fun and he showed us a great private area of the city we had not seen yet.  Great backdrop for our photos. ”
Interested in hiring an amazing local photographer?
Choose a Flytographer you love — we’ll take care of the rest.
Explore our Photographers