SOURCE_URL: (manual download - Explore Tel Aviv with Zohar S. - Private Tour Guide | ToursByLocals.html)
--------------------------------------------------
Explore Tel Aviv with Zohar S. - Private Tour Guide | ToursByLocals
Tour guide in Tel Aviv
Zohar S.
Tel Aviv, Israel
English, Hebrew
Tours Delivered,
Since
Jun 9, 2023
3.0
Hours, Avg. response time
Delivers tours starting at
Tel Aviv
Jerusalem
Nazareth
Haifa
Galilee
Tours by
Zohar S.
Maxine S.
January 2026
We had a great day touring Caesarea, Zichron Yaakov and Acre with Zohar. He is easy going and interesting. We would recommend Zohar as a tour guide.
Replied from
Zohar S.
Thank you Maxine and Rob, ut was plaeasure guiding you. I hope to see you again.
Best Regards  and enjoy the rest of the tour Zohar
Rivka G.
January 2026
Zohar was good and flexible. Was quick to accommodate the touring to a plan B due to weather restrictions and took the family to the Davidson center instead of touring the old city due to rain. The Davidson center was a very good choice.
Aviva K.
November 2025
I enjoyed the tour of Old Jaffa very much and learned a great deal.  Zohar is an excellent guide.  He is very knowledgeable and imparts historical and other facts in an engaging way.  He is pleasant company and waited patiently while I took innumerable photos.  I highly recommend this tour.
Replied from
Zohar S.
Thank you Aviva for your review . It was pleasure to pass on my knowledge to an interested and admiring person like you. I w'll be thrilled to guide you in your next visits to Israel. Best Regards Zohar
Judi S.
October 2023
We had an excellent day exploring the area between Tel Aviv and Haifa. Zohar was knowledgeable about EVERYTHING we saw along the way. He could discuss the events occurring throughout many layers of history from ancient times, Byzantine era, Middle Ages and up to the modern era and the creation of Israel. It was obvious that he loved showing me his country.
Replied from
Zohar S.
Thank you Judi. It was great pleasure to guide you , here your enthusiastic stories about the midburn, and share your interest in the places we passe . I wish to myself mor travellers like you. I hope you can finish your tour here in spite of the situation.
Israel guides by city
Popular cities in Israel
Private tours in Tel Aviv
Popular countries
Popular cities worldwide
Jerusalem tour guides
Tel Aviv tour guides
Haifa tour guides
Ashdod tour guides
Galilee tour guides
Nazareth tour guides
Masada tour guides
Beersheba tour guides
Eilat tour guides
Jerusalem tours
Tel Aviv tours
Haifa tours
Ashdod tours
Galilee tours
Nazareth tours
Masada tours
Beersheba tours
Eilat tours
Masada and Dead Sea day tour
Jerusalem Old City Private Tour from Tel Aviv
Old Jaffa walking tour
Tel Aviv History Private Walking Tour
Dead Sea Private Tour from Tel Aviv
Israel 12 Day Private Customizable Tour
Along the Mediterranean Coast - Private Tour from Tel Aviv
Shore Excursion : Haifa to the Sea Of Galilee & Nazareth With Aladdin
Christianity in the Galilee Private Tour from Tel Aviv
Tel Aviv Highlights Private Tour
From Tel Aviv to Jerusalem - Private Tour
Tel Aviv and Jaffa four hours Tour
Masada, Ein Gedi and The Dead Sea Private Tour (from Jerusalem/Tell Aviv)
Biblical Private Tour of Israel - Full Day
One day Tel Aviv & Jaffa private tour
Private Tour Tel-Aviv to Masada
Christian Tour from Tel Aviv - Two Days
Half Day Bethlehem Tour
Ancient Jaffa and Modern Tel Aviv UNESCO Sites with local guide
Jerusalem New City & Herodion Private Tour from Tel Aviv
Jewish Heritage Private Tour in Jerusalem from Tel Aviv
Walk through Time in Tel Aviv-Jaffa
Private Customized Israel Tour
Along the Dead Sea Private tour from Tel Aviv or Jerusalem
Full Day Jerusalem Jesus Tour from Tel Aviv
Jerusalem and Bethlehem highlights exciting tour from Tel Aviv or Jerusalem
In-depth Jerusalem Christian Tour
Druze Cultural Experience with Kibbutz visit
Masada and the Dead Sea
Nazareth and Sea of Galilee from Tel Aviv
Holy City of Jerusalem and Bethlehem, experience these most unique places
Adventures in the Golan Heights - Private Tour from Tel Aviv
Enjoying the Golan Heights beauty and history private tour
Negev Desert Private Tour from Tel Aviv
Megiddo - Zichron Yaakov - Caesaria.
Tel Aviv Jaffa - the bustling core of Israel
Caesarea and Zichron Yaakov Private Tour
outdoor Caeserea a live Virtual Tour
Day tour of Tel Aviv and Jaffa (the twin cities)
Tel Aviv Tour - UNESCU HeritageThe White City
Argentina private tours
Australia private tours
Austria private tours
Belgium private tours
Brazil private tours
Canada private tours
Chile private tours
China private tours
Croatia private tours
Czech Republic private tours
Denmark private tours
Egypt private tours
Ecuador private tours
Italy private tours
France private tours
Germany private tours
Greece private tours
Hungary private tours
Iceland private tours
Ireland private tours
Japan private tours
Malta private tours
Mexico private tours
Morocco private tours
Netherlands private tours
New Zealand private tours
Norway private tours
Poland private tours
Portugal private tours
Singapore private tours
South Africa private tours
South Korea private tours
Spain private tours
Sweden private tours
Switzerland private tours
Thailand private tours
Turkiye private tours
United Kingdom private tours
United States private tours
Vietnam private tours
Amsterdam private tours
Athens private tours
Bangkok private tours
Barcelona private tours
Bayeux private tours
Berlin private tours
Boston private tours
Budapest private tours
Buenos Aires private tours
Dublin private tours
Edinburgh private tours
Florence private tours
Hong Kong private tours
Honolulu private tours
Istanbul private tours
Kyoto private tours
Lisbon private tours
London private tours
Madrid private tours
Mexico City private tours
Munich private tours
Naples private tours
New York City private tours
Osaka private tours
Paris private tours
Porto private tours
Prague private tours
Reykjavik private tours
Rome private tours
Salzburg private tours
Santiago private tours
Seoul private tours
Shizuoka private tours
Singapore private tours
Sydney private tours
Tokyo private tours
Vancouver private tours
Venice private tours
Vienna private tours
Zurich private tours