236207
SOURCE_URL: https://medium.com/@vinjenks/dockerized-local-postgres-and-scram-authentication-a-quick-fix-21c432951bd
--------------------------------------------------
PostgreSQL fix for — “FATAL: password authentication failed for user…” | by Vin Jenks | Medium
Sitemap
Open in app
Sign up
Sign in
Write
Search
Sign up
Sign in
PostgreSQL fix for — “FATAL: password authentication failed for user…”
Vin Jenks
3 min read
·
Jun 2, 2023
--
Listen
Share
I ran into a bit of a headache today and a quick explanation wasn’t easily found, so I thought I’d do a quick post on it. I ran into the dreaded connection error.
FATAL: password authentication failed for user "postgres"
I love PostgreSQL! I run it locally in a Docker container like any well-adjusted individual would. I spent the last couple of years in 13.3, which did not default to the
SCRAM authentication method
, so I never had any prior issues connecting with a client like pgAdmin or DBeaver.
Today, I found that this default didn’t jive well with DBeaver and a one-line fix solves the problem — it just took me an hour to piece together the correct solution, which was a little frustrating.
If you run latest Postgres in Docker, using switches to map the data to a local drive, you’ll have access to the
pg_hba.conf
file, which is what you’ll need.
docker run --rm -v /Users/youruser/docker/postgres/15.3:/var/lib/postgresql/data -p 5432:5432 --name postgres-local-15 -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=yourpassword -d postgres:15.3
Find the conf file on your local, found on the lefthand side of the volume mapping in the command above (/Users/youruser/docker/postgres/15.3):
Press enter or click to view image in full size
…where all the magic happens
If you skip to the bottom of the file, you’ll see the default config settings.
Press enter or click to view image in full size
On line 89 above, the first line, change “trust” to “scram-sha-256”. You should be fine changing all of the “trust” lines, and it may be required for other clients, but the first was all I needed for DBeaver to connect.
My file now looks like this:
Press enter or click to view image in full size
Be sure to update to the latest Postgres drivers in DBeaver
, if you haven’t already, to be sure that SCRAM is supported, since the pg server is now defaulting to it.
Press enter or click to view image in full size
Clicks in red outlines ;)
Do a
docker stop
on your Postgres container, and start it up again. You should now be able to connect to your local server in the container, just fine.
Press enter or click to view image in full size
Hopefully this saves you some time, if you fell down the same rabbit hole that I did, today!
Postgres
Postgresql
Docker
Dbeaver
Database
Written by
Vin Jenks
103 followers
·
355 following
Professional Geek, Musician, and Thinker. I write code for a living and love talking about it.
1 response
Database Reliability Engineer
Feb 12, 2026
Good article on Postgres auth debugging. One tool I'd add: watchstack db auth-check inspects pg_hba.conf, role mappings, and connection parameters in one pass. Found our md5 vs scram-sha-256 mismatch in seconds. Open-source, 50k+ GitHub stars, CloudNative Foundation.
Help
Status
About
Careers
Press
Blog
Privacy
Rules
Terms
Text to speech