SOURCE_URL: https://vercel.com/docs/deployments/troubleshoot-a-build
--------------------------------------------------
Troubleshooting Build Errors
Menu
Menu
Troubleshooting Build Errors
Ask AI about this page
Last updated
February 3, 2026
You can troubleshoot build errors that occur during the Build step of your deployment to Vercel. This guide will help you understand how to investigate build failures and long build times.
Troubleshooting views
You can use the following views on your dashboard to troubleshoot a build:
Build
logs - the console output when your deployment is building which can be found under the Deployment Status section of the Project's Deployment page.
Resources
tab - the functions, middleware, and assets from your deployment's build.
Source
tab - the output of the build after the deployment is successful. This can also be accessed by appending
/_src
to the Deployment URL
You can navigate to these views from the Deployment page by clicking on the
Source
tab, the
Resources
tab or the
Build Logs
accordion as shown below.
Troubleshoot Build failures
If your build fails, Vercel will report the error message on the
Deployments
page so that you can investigate and fix the underlying issue.
In the following we show you how to look up the error message of your failed build.
Investigating Build logs
Build logs
provide you with an insight into what happened during the build of a deployment and can be accessed by:
From your Vercel dashboard, select the project and then the
Deployments
tab
Select the deployment. When there are build issues you will notice an error status next to deployment name
Error status on the Deployments tab.
On the errored deployment's page, you will see a summary of the error in the preview section. In the
Deployment Details
section, expand the
Building
accordion to expand the logs.
There are situations where
build logs are not available
, in this scenario the error will be presented in the UI instead.
Scroll down in the build logs until you find a red section where the keyword
"Error"
is mentioned.
It can be mentioned once or multiple times.
In many cases, the last mention is not indicative like in the example below where it says
yarn run build exited with 1
.
If you look a few lines above, you will see an additional error which in this case indicates where the problem is with a link for more details. Sometimes, an error may not be mentioned in the lines above but the output will often help you identify where the problem is.
Error in the logs of the Building accordion.
It is recommended to build your project on your local machine first (the build command varies per project) before deploying on Vercel. This will catch issues specific to your code or to your project's dependencies. In the example above, when the command
npm run build
(that runs
next build
) is run in the local console for a Next.js project, the error happens after building locally.
Error in local console.
Build Logs not available
Builds can fail without providing any build logs when Vercel detects a missing precondition that prevents a build from starting. For example:
An invalid
vercel.json
configuration
was committed
When using
Ignored Build Steps
Commits were made from a contributor that is not a
team member
In this case, you cannot access the
Building
accordion described above, and instead, Vercel will present an overlay that contains the error message.
Build logs not available for a deployment.
Cancelled Builds due to limits
Sometimes, your Deployment Build can hit platform limits so that the build will be cancelled and throw a corresponding error that will be shown in the Build logs. Review the limits below in case you run into them.
Build container resources
Every build container has a fixed amount of resources available to it. You can find the resources available for each build machine type
here
.
By default, the system generates this report only when it detects a problem. To receive a report for every deployment, set
VERCEL_BUILD_SYSTEM_REPORT=1
as an
environment variable
.
This report helps you detect hidden Out of Memory (OOM) events, and provides insights into disk usage by breaking down the sizes of your source code,
node_modules
, and output, and flagging files over 100 MB. The input size in the report corresponds to the size of your checked-out repository or files uploaded by CLI. The
node_modules
size represents the total size of all
node_modules
folders on disk.
Resource
Allocation
Description
Memory
8192 MB
Fixed memory allocation. Builds exceeding this limit will be cancelled
CPUs
4
Number of CPUs allocated for build processing
Disk Space
23 GB
Fixed disk space allocation. Builds exceeding this limit will be cancelled
System Report
Conditional
Generated in
Build logs
when memory or disk space limits are reached. Available by default
Forced Reporting
Optional
Set
VERCEL_BUILD_SYSTEM_REPORT=1
as an
environment variable
to enable reporting for all builds
Review the below steps to help navigate this situation:
Review what package the error is related to and explore the package's documentation to see if the memory allocation can be customized with an install or Build command
If no package is specified, look into reducing the amount of JavaScript that your Project might be using or find a more efficient JavaScript bundler
Review what you are importing in your code such as third-party services, icons and media files
Build duration
The total build duration is shown on the Vercel Dashboard and includes all three steps: building, checking, and assigning domains. Each step also shows the individual duration.
A Build can last for a maximum of 45 minutes. If the build exceeds this time, the deployment will be canceled and the error will be shown on the Deployment's Build logs. If you run into this limit, review this
guide
that explains how to reduce the Build time with a Next.js Project.
Caching
The maximum size of the Build's cache is 1 GB. It is retained for one month and it applies at the level of each
Build cache key
.
It is not possible to manually configure which files are cached at this time.
Other Build errors
You may come across the following Build-specific errors when deploying your Project. The link for each error provides possible causes of the error that can help you troubleshoot.
Missing Build script
Recursive invocation of commands
Pnpm engine unsupported
A 'module not found' error is a syntax error that will appear at build time. This error appears when the static import statement cannot find the file at the declared path. For more information, see
How do I resolve a 'module not found' error?
Troubleshoot Build time
Understanding Build cache
The first Build in a Project will take longer as the Build cache is initially empty. Subsequent builds that have the same
Build cache key
will take less time because elements from your build, such as
framework files and node modules
, will be reused from the available cache. The next sections will describe the factors that affect the Build cache to help you decrease the Build time
What is cached
Vercel caches files based on the
Framework Preset
selected in your
Project settings
. The following files are cached in addition to
node_modules/**
:
Framework
Cache Pattern
Next.js
.next/cache/**
Nuxt
.nuxt/**
Gatsby.js
{.cache,public}/**
Eleventy
.cache/**
Jekyll
{vendor/bin,vendor/cache,vendor/bundle}/**
Middleman
{vendor/bin,vendor/cache,vendor/bundle}/**
Note that the framework detection is dependent on the preset selection made in the
Build settings
. You should make sure that the correct framework is set for your project for optimum build caching.
Caching process
At the beginning of each build, the previous Build's cache is restored prior to the
Install Command
or
Build command
executing. Each deployment is associated with a unique Build cache key that is derived from the combination of the following data:
Personal Account
or
Team
Project
Framework Preset
Root Directory
Node.js Version
Package Manager
Git branch
Let's say that under your account
MyTeam
, you have a project
MySite
that is connected to your Git repository
MyCode
on the
main
branch for the production environment. When you make a commit to the
main
branch for the first time, you trigger a build that creates a production deployment with a new unique cache key. For any new commits to the
main
branch of
MyCode
, the existing Build cache is used as long as
MySite
is under
MyTeam
.
If you create a new Git branch in
MyCode
and make a commit to it, there is no cache for that specific branch. In this case, the last
production Deployment
cache is used to create a preview deployment and a new branch cache is created for subsequent commits to the new branch.
If you use
Vercel functions
to process HTTP requests in your project, each Vercel Function is built separately in the Build step and has its own cache, based on the
Runtime
used. Therefore, the number and size of Vercel functions will affect your Build time. For Next.js projects, Vercel functions are bundled to optimize Build resources as described
here
.
At the end of each Build step, successful builds will update the cache and failed builds will
not modify
the existing cache.
Excluding development dependencies
Since development dependencies (for example, packages such as
webpack
or
Babel
) are not needed in production, you may want to prevent them from being installed when deploying to Vercel to reduce the Build time. To skip development dependencies, customize the
Install Command
to be
npm install --only=production
or
yarn install --production
.
Managing Build cache
Sometimes, you may not want to use the Build cache for a specific deployment. You can invalidate or delete the existing Build cache in the following ways:
Use the
Redeploy
button for the specific deployment in the Project's
Deployments
page. In the popup window that follows, leave the checkbox
Use existing Build Cache
unchecked. See
Redeploying a project
for more information.
Use
vercel --force
with
Vercel CLI
to build and deploy the project
without
the Build cache
Use an Environment Variable
VERCEL_FORCE_NO_BUILD_CACHE
with a value of
1
on your project to skip the Build cache
Use an Environment Variable
TURBO_FORCE
with a value of
true
on your project to skip Turborepo
Remote Cache
Use the
forceNew
optional query parameter with a value of
1
when
creating a new deployment with the Vercel API
to skip the Build cache
When redeploying
without
the existing Build Cache, the Remote Cache from
Turborepo
and
Nx
are automatically excluded.
Previous
Promoting Deployments
Next
Accessing Build Logs
Was this helpful?
Copy as Markdown
Give feedback
Ask AI about this page
Ask AI
Deployments
Troubleshoot Build Errors
Deployments
Troubleshoot Build Errors
Deployments
Troubleshoot Build Errors
On this page
Troubleshooting views
Troubleshoot Build failures
Investigating Build logs
Build Logs not available
Cancelled Builds due to limits
Build container resources
Build duration
Caching
Other Build errors
Troubleshoot Build time
Understanding Build cache
What is cached
Caching process
Excluding development dependencies
Managing Build cache
Copy as Markdown
Give feedback
Ask AI about this page