SOURCE_URL: https://graphite.com/guides/how-to-resolve-detached-head-state-in-git
--------------------------------------------------
How to resolve detached HEAD state in Git
Skip to content
Graphite is joining Cursor to reimagine the future of software development.
Read more
How to resolve detached HEAD state in Git
Greg Foster
Graphite software engineer
Try Graphite
Note
This guide explains this concept in vanilla Git. For Graphite documentation, see our
CLI docs
.
A Git detached HEAD occurs when you're working directly on a commit rather than on a branch. This guide will walk you through understanding, resolving, and leveraging a detached HEAD state in Git.
Stop wrestling with Git commands
The Graphite CLI takes all the pain out of Git, allowing you to ship faster and stop googling Git commands.
Learn more
Request a Demo
main
diff1
diff2
Understanding detached HEAD
Detached HEAD state
: You enter this state when you check out a specific commit rather than a branch. In this mode,
HEAD
points directly to a commit, not to a branch reference.
Git Detached HEAD meaning
: Being in a detached HEAD means you're no longer working on the tip of a branch. Any commits made in this state aren't attached to any branch, making them harder to find later.
Identifying a detached HEAD
Check to see if you are in a detached HEAD state
: Run
git status
. If you're in a detached HEAD state, Git will explicitly tell you so.
Exiting detached HEAD state
Go Back to Previous Branch
: If you simply want to exit detached HEAD state without keeping any changes made:
git checkout <branch-name>
Replace
<branch-name>
with the name of the branch you wish to return to, such as
master
or
main
. For more information, see this guide on
how to use git checkout
.
Create a new branch from detached HEAD
: To keep your current changes, and continue working on them run:
git checkout -b new-branch-name
This command creates a new branch from your current detached HEAD position and switches to it. On this branch you can continue to push, pull, and commit as normal.
Fixing a detached HEAD
After accidental detachment
: If you've made commits in the detached HEAD state and want to attach them to a branch: Replace
<target_branch>
with your target branch . This sequence of commands creates a temporary branch pointing to your detached HEAD, then merges these changes back into your target branch so you can continue development as usual.
Terminal
git
branch temp-branch
git
checkout
<
target_branch
>
git
merge temp-branch
Detached HEAD after rebase
If you find yourself in a detached HEAD state after a rebase, it's likely because the rebase was started from a detached HEAD state or a specific commit. To fix:
Create a new branch as previously described to preserve your rebased commits.
Then, resolve any conflicts or issues as you would after a standard rebase operation.
Pushing changes from detached HEAD to remote
To push changes made in a detached HEAD state to a remote repository, first, ensure you've moved the changes to a new branch:
Terminal
git
checkout -b new-feature
git
push origin new-feature
git checkout -b new-feature
checks out a new branch with all of the changes in the detached HEAD. The
git push
command then pushes the branch to your remote repository, so the branch will be tracked and stored remotely. From here, once you have made all the necessary changes in this new branch, you can then merge these changes back into your main development branch by opening a
pull request
.
Detached HEAD when checking out a remote-tracking branch
When you checkout a remote branch directly, you might end up in a detached HEAD state. To avoid this, always create a new local branch to track the remote branch:
Terminal
git
checkout -b local-branch-name origin/remote-branch-name
The best engineers use Graphite to simplify Git
Engineers at Vercel, Snowflake & The Browser Company are shipping faster and staying unblocked with Graphite.
Git started for free
Request a Demo
main
diff1
diff2
Common scenarios and solutions
Checkout tag detached HEAD
: Checking out a tag directly leads to a detached HEAD. Create a branch if you intend to make changes based on a tag.
Detached HEAD on rebase
: Always ensure you're on a branch before starting a rebase to avoid detaching.
Lost commits in detached HEAD
: Use
git reflog
to find commits made in a detached HEAD state, then branch off from there to recover them.
A detached HEAD in Git is not an error but a state indicating you're directly on a commit. It's useful for exploring history, conducting code reviews, or making temporary experimental changes. Always remember to create a new branch from your detached HEAD if you wish to preserve your changes, thereby avoiding any potential loss of work.
For more information on the detached HEAD state, see the
official git documentation
.
Related guides
How to commit to a new branch in Git
This guide will walk you through the process of creating a new branch, committing changes to it, and...
How to create a Git branch from a tag
This guide will walk you through the process of creating a branch from a tag, both locally and from ...
How to add all tracked files in Git
This guide will explain what it means for a file to be tracked, how to add tracked files, and cover ...
Last modified
almost 2 years ago
0
min read
On this page
Understanding detached HEAD
Identifying a detached HEAD
Exiting detached HEAD state
Fixing a detached HEAD
Detached HEAD after rebase
Pushing changes from detached HEAD to remote
Detached HEAD when checking out a remote-tracking branch
Common scenarios and solutions
Share
Built for the world’s fastest engineering teams, now available for everyone.
Request a demo
Start free trial