SOURCE_URL: (manual download - Reviews for Galilean Cooking Workshop 2-4 Particpants.html)
--------------------------------------------------
Reviews for Galilean Cooking Workshop 2-4 Particpants
X2368kegerardb
06-May-2023
Our reaction to the cooking workshop with a Druze couple
echoes that of other reviewers. We were graciously and
warmly welcomed and began with a discussion of Druze culture
and religion.
Next we donned aprons and set about preparing a multi-course
dinner. We were two couples and needed to avoid various
ingredients (including sesame and garlic) due to food
intolerances. Our hosts did a fabulous job accommodating our
requirements—better and more cheerfully than most
restaurants.
We’re looking forward to receiving the recipes so that we
can prepare these dishes for friends back in the U.S.
Both the food and the cultural exchange were highlights of
our Israel vacation.
The views from our hosts’ home were to die for.
Kellyge3434er
17-Jan-2023
I cannot recommend GalilEat strongly enough! Our guide, the
excellent Baruch of Touring With Baruch, suggested that we
do an Arabic cooking class while on our trip. To be honest,
I’m not sure I would have gone for this if not for the
fact that my mom, who was on this trip to Israel, did
something similar when she visited India and said it was a
fabulous experience. I really value eating well when I
travel, and I love visiting restaurants. So to do this home
cooking class meant not going to a restaurant one night.
Well thank goodness we did this home cooking class! Because,
as it turns out, it was my favorite meal in Israel. More
importantly, it was a beautiful experience of the profound
joy that is making new friends in other countries, and a
reminder that language barriers and geographical distance
are no match against everyone’s common humanity.
How it worked: Baruch drove us to the home we were visiting,
which was the home of a lovely woman named Pnina. There, we
also met up with Paul, who owns and runs GalilEat. When we
arrived, we visited in Pnina’s living room and asked her
questions about her life in Israel and her Druze faith. Paul
functioned as the translator. My family and I knew nothing
about the Druze, and it was utterly fascinating to learn
about their long-ago break from the Muslim faith, their
history across time, and their lives in modern-day Israel.
Pnina happily fielded or questions, answering all of them,
and Paul was the ever-ready middleman, making the
conversation feel natural and seamless. Pnina also asked
some questions about us, which we were just as happy to
answer.
Eventually, we moved into Pnina’s kitchen, quite literally
rolled up our sleeves, and got cooking! In advance of our
arrival, she made the more labor-intensive and
time-consuming dishes of our dinner. We helped her with a
salad, an appetizer, and this crazy delicious bread that
I’m still thinking about. At some point prior to our trip,
I mentioned to Baruch that I’d recently been introduced to
the wondrous dessert that is knafeh. He asked Paul if we
might be able to make knafeh, and Pnina very graciously
granted this request! I was blown away by everyone’s
kindness and flexibility, as it was so much fun to make
fresh knafeh (and oh my goodness was it good).
In time, dinner was ready, and all of us—Pnina, Paul,
Baruch, my six family members, and I—gathered in Pnina’s
dining room and broke bread together. It was so special to
share in a meal with strangers-turned-friends. We had lively
conversation, and Paul always took care to translate to
Pnina so she could remain just as engaged as the rest of us.
And, as I said, the food was phenomenal. All in all, this
was way better than a restaurant! It was a way more personal
experience than any restaurant, no matter how great their
food, could have ever offered.
I will never travel overseas again without scheduling a
similar home cooking experience whenever possible. It’s
such a unique and fun way to learn about a country, its
people, its culture. It’s a truly immersive experience,
and one that comes with the bonus of incredible food. I
enthusiastically recommend an evening with
GalilEats—it’ll be among your most memorable experiences
on your trip to Israel.
Boroditsky
01-Aug-2022
Wonderful authentic experience learning to cook traditional
food at a locals home. Defiantly worth the visit! Food was
fabulous and experience was not to be forgotten
Theol900
29-Jul-2022
A spectacular experience. My wife and I spent an evening
with a Druze couple, learning about both culture and cuisine
in their house.  The only thing more amazing than the
delicious food was the experience of connecting with them,
with Paul as our guide.  It was one of the most memorable
parts of our trip to the Middle East.
Evekh212
27-Jul-2022
The most amazing experience ever!! Pnina is the kindest, and
most wonderful host and chef. She taught us to create
delicious Druze dishes, which we were able to enjoy at her
table. Paul was great at translating and explaining what we
would be doing at the workshop and the background of Druze
culture and cuisine. Thank you for letting us experience and
enjoy this workshop and meal. It was the highlight of our
tour and we encourage all visitors to book this workshop.
Thank you, Paul and Pnina, for sharing these recipes with
us.
Lindarr7456wj
06-Jul-2022
I would give MORE stars if I could! Our group of 12 enjoyed
every minute at the Druze house. We learned lots, we cooked,
ate, and laughed. I highly recommend this workshop!!! :-)
Michalp1390
18-Jun-2022
היינו בסדנת בישול אצל זארפת
בירכא. כלתה עביר ליוותה ותירגמה
את דבריה. היה נפלא. אירוח עשיר,
קבלת פנים נעימה ולבבית, הסברים
והדגמה ו- גם אנחנו בישלנו. זו
הייתה חגיגת יומולדת חוויתית
וטעימה! הקשר עם פול היה ישיר
ומצוין.  מומלץ בחום רב.
Sarahgc9177gv
17-Jun-2022
Our group of three adults spent an incredible afternoon
getting to know Miad, learning not just about Druze history
but something about what it is really like (at least for one
person) to be Druze in Israel today, and preparing and
eating the most delicious food. I look forward to preparing
the recipes again in the future (after we're done eating the
leftovers), and to telling all my friends to try one of
these fantastic cooking workshops.
Rachel S
30-Aug-2021
This is experience -- where to begin. The highlight of our
trip. For the whole family, my son too. We learned about the
culture in the most poignant, personal way. One of those
moments I'll never ever forget. Our host is a person I will
treasure forever.
Rach-marg
13-Dec-2020
Such a wonderful experience! Our host was warm and
welcoming. Paul was so nice and made the booking quick and
easy. We walked away with delicious food, great recipes, and
a better understanding of Druze culture!
Also, the cooking experience was almost done mainly outside
and our host was very mindful of distancing. It was very
covid-friendly.
No more reviews available
Back
Select a Date
Proceed