SOURCE_URL: (manual download - Luxury Cultural Tour in Tel Aviv: Full-Day Private Journey Through History, Cuisine and Art: Book To.html)
--------------------------------------------------
Luxury Cultural Tour in Tel Aviv: Full-Day Private Journey Through History, Cuisine and Art: Book Tours & Activities at Peek.com
Recently Viewed
Luxury Cultural Tour in Tel Aviv: Full-Day Private Journey Through History, Cuisine and Art
5.0
16 Ratings
Tel Aviv-Yafo
Saved
Save
Share
Copy Link
Message
Email
WhatsApp
View Gallery (5)
Explore Tel Aviv’s rich history, vibrant street art, and culinary delights on a luxury private tour. Discover Jaffa’s heritage and Tel Aviv’s contemporary culture.
Explore Tel Aviv’s rich history, vibrant street art, and culinary delights on a luxury private tour. Discover Jaffa’s heritage and Tel Aviv’s contemporary culture.
Duration:
8 hours
Cancellation:
24 hours
learn more
Highlights
Jaffa Old City
- The old city of Jaffa contains thousands of years of history full of stories, religions, and unique landscapes that will tell the history of the region and the city.
The tour is a walking tour through the port of Jaffa, the alleys of the old city from the Ottoman period, and through galleries and street art.
**Jaffa Flea…
Jaffa Old City
- The old city of Jaffa contains thousands of years of history full of stories, religions, and unique landscapes that will tell the history of the region and the city.
The tour is a walking tour through the port of Jaffa, the alleys of the old city from the Ottoman period, and through galleries and street art.
Jaffa Flea Market
- The flea market started as a simple and old-fashioned market, and today is a culinary gem full of street food, restaurants, pubs and stores of fashion, design and jewelry
Carmel Market (Shuk Ha’Carmel)
- Tel Aviv’s colorful, diverse and main food market. Here you can see the history, cultures and current cultural life of one of the most beautiful cities the Middle East has to offer.
Florentine
- Graffiti Tour - The Florentine neighborhood has for years attracted students and artists to express themselves with the help of street art. The tour of the neighborhood will be able to convey the life of the community and the young artists of Tel Aviv
Israel Diamond Exchange
- The tour of one of the largest diamond exchanges in the world. A VIP tour , and is given only to small groups of people, up to 8 people.
On the tour, you enter through heavy security for an in-depth and experiential introduction to one of the most intriguing and fascinating places that Tel Aviv has to offer
see more
show less
What's Included
Private transportation
Private transportation
What's Not Included
Lunch
Lunch
Additional Information
Visit the historical heritage site and understand the importance of Jaffa in the space and time of thousands of years of civilization. A transition between Christian culture and stories from the New Testament, to Muslim culture from the Ottoman period to Jewish and Israeli culture that created the contemporary and vibrant city of Tel Aviv, and the tour…
Visit the historical heritage site and understand the importance of Jaffa in the space and time of thousands of years of civilization. A transition between Christian culture and stories from the New Testament, to Muslim culture from the Ottoman period to Jewish and Israeli culture that created the contemporary and vibrant city of Tel Aviv, and the tour also includes street art of current graffiti by the youth of Tel Aviv. We will move between the past, the present, and the future. The flea market represents the past, the Carmel market represents the variety of food, and the culinary abundance of Tel Aviv, and the diamond exchange represents the life of luxury and luxury that exists in the city. All of these fascinating elements and themes connect to a special texture that colors the city of Tel Aviv on a daily basis and makes it possible to understand the city of Israeli society in an authentic way through stories, experiences, and conversations that grow throughout the day.
see more
show less
Location
Dan Panorama Tel -Aviv
Kaufmann Street
I will meet you at the hotel or at any other point that is convenient for you
Cancellation Policy
For a full refund, cancel at least 24 hours before the scheduled departure time.
For a full refund, cancel at least 24 hours before the scheduled departure time.
Customer Ratings
5.0
(16 Ratings)
5 stars
4 stars
3 stars
2 stars
1 star
Robertak814
Dec 22, 2025
YONI IS THE BEST- HIGHLY RECOMMENDED - It was excellent on all fronts. Yoni is an inspiring, intelligent guide and he made the trip extremely special for our group. Highly recommended!
Review provided by Tripadvisor
Danbq4512ee
Dec 8, 2025
Great trip! - Yoni was a fabulous guide. He was knowledgeable, patient, and kind. We are planning two more trips and will ask for Yoni by name. He was that good!
Review provided by Tripadvisor
L9735miericm
Dec 8, 2025
Very impactful, fun and enjoyable - Toni was the best tour guide I ever experienced!  He was knowledgeable and very funny!  He is also a great person just to be around.
Review provided by Tripadvisor
Toddh856
Dec 8, 2025
Best Ever - Yoni and Avishay were absolutely amazing!  This was the best experience of my life!  I have been all over the world and met many great people, but this trip is #1 in my book!  They started out as out guides and ended up being our dear friends!
Review provided by Tripadvisor
Judyru655ba
Dec 4, 2025
A great experience was had by all! - As a family of eight with different personalities and interests, I have to say our guide Yoni Tasker met and exceeded all expectations on our 10 days together.  He prepares you for each location and he communicates information clearly, always responsive to questions and requests.  Yoni specializes in quality and his goal is for everyone to have a wonderful experience. He goes above and beyond to take care of any needs that may arise.  You will enjoy his company as well as his expertise.
Review provided by Tripadvisor
Ryanpm7562hu
Nov 12, 2025
Yoni The Great - I was in Israel on behalf of a delegation from the UK. Yoni organised the perfect trip and was a fountain of knowledge. Just when you thought you had been taught or shown the most spectacular or interesting thing you had ever seen in your life, there was always something better waiting on the next part of the trip. Organisation of the whole trip was amazing, at no point did it ever get dull and I would love to do it again.
10/10 ⭐ would recommend to anyone
Review provided by Tripadvisor
Danbarker4610
Nov 11, 2025
Great Tour Guide that goes the extra mile... - Yoni looked after our group on a tour of Israel and ensured we had an excellent experience. He has a deep knowledge of his country and I enjoyed talking with him about the history and culture of Israel. I recommend Yoni without reservation.
Review provided by Tripadvisor
O4761dukevins
Sep 15, 2025
Insightful guide who cares! - Yoni was amazing. Knowledgeable, friendly, professional, calm, personable, adaptable, and caring. He made our trip exponentially better. He didn’t just provide facts but offered context and insight while still being objective. Will definitely ask for his help again if I travel again.
Review provided by Tripadvisor
F8913ladonalds
Sep 13, 2025
Eye opening trip to a great country - Yoni guided us through all kinds of settings and situations. He got us where we needed to be— on time.  He gave lots of helpful background on each place we visited.  We enjoyed being with him.
Review provided by Tripadvisor
Arpit
Aug 26, 2025
An Unforgettable Journey with Yoni Tasker, More Than a Guide, He's Family ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ - Our recent trip to Israel was extraordinary, largely due to the amazing work Yoni Tasker put in as our tour guide. Yoni welcomed us at the airport on the 10th of August and from that moment he started treating us as family for the whole week until we safely departed on the 15th. Yoni did not only guide us but went out of his way to ensure we felt at home.
A Guardian Angel from Day One
Yoni met us at the airport with the warmest smile and made sure we felt at home in a foreign land. His attention to detail was quite impressive. From managing transfers, to his journey with us to Jerusalem, he ensured that everyone was comfortable taking part in the tour. He was genuinely concerned about every single member of our group.
More than Just a Job
Throughout our 6-day trip to Jerusalem, the North, South, and Tel Aviv, Yoni was an amazing guide and an even better person. During our visits to Yad Vashem, the Old City of Jerusalem, and even the Nova memorial, he struck the perfect balance between providing context and maintaining the group’s morale. Most guides tell the groups about the site in a monotone, emotionless voice, but Yoni was the opposite. He was absolutely wonderful at gauging group’s energy and adjusting accordingly.
Review provided by Tripadvisor
see more
show less
Check Availability
From $920
(Per Vehicle)
From
$920
(Per Vehicle)
up to 7 guests
1 - Traveler
1
Traveler
Ages 0 - 120
Select a date
February 2026
Sun
Mon
Tue
Wed
Thu
Fri
Sat
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
Today
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
Cancellation:
Free cancellation up to 24 hours before the start of your experience (local time).
Log In or Sign Up
Access and manage your tickets
Earn credits and activity discounts
Continue with Facebook
Continue with Google
or
Register
Log in