SOURCE_URL: https://www.stackhawk.com/blog/fixing-no-access-control-allow-origin-header-present/
--------------------------------------------------
Resolve "No 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' Header Present"
Blog
Vulnerabilities and Remediation
How to Fix “No ‘Access-Control-Allow-Origin’ Header Present”
Matt Tanner
|
Jul 2, 2025
Share on LinkedIn
Share on X
Share on Facebook
Share on Reddit
Send us an email
CORS errors can be extremely frustrating. The
“No ‘Access-Control-Allow-Origin’ Header Present”
error is up there as one of the least helpful error messages a developer can face. Sure, it tells you that there’s a header missing, but from where is it missing, and what should it be? Searching for it on the internet brings up a popular forum where the most common answer is simply allowing all requests to bypass legitimate CORS checks on the API side. Although it works to eliminate the error, it’s
worse than wrong – it’s dangerous
.
In short, the ‘access-control-allow-origin’ header is a
Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)
header. It’s a key component in CORS, which, if you’re unfamiliar, is a mechanism for relaxing the “Same-Origin” policy of modern browsers. These policies allow things like serving your static content from
www.example.com
and your dynamic content from
api.example.com
.
What Causes This Error?
This error occurs when a script on your website attempts to make a request to a resource that isn’t configured to accept requests from your domain. Here’s what’s happening:
Before making certain cross-origin requests
, the browser first makes a preflight request using the OPTIONS method. This allows the server to define what origins, methods, and headers are allowed.
Simple requests
(such as
GET
,
HEAD
, or
POST
with standard headers and content types like
application/x-www-form-urlencoded
) bypass the preflight check and go directly to the server. Only requests with custom headers, non-standard HTTP methods (PUT, DELETE, PATCH), or certain content types (like application/json) require preflight validation.
There is an important and sometimes confusing distinction to make, though: CORS is a browser-enforced security mechanism. It helps to protect users from malicious scripts running in their browsers. However, CORS does
not
provide server-side security, which is what many developers think. This means that it won’t prevent requests made outside of browser contexts (such as curl commands, server-side scripts, or API clients).
All being said, if the server isn’t configured to handle cross-origin requests properly, you’ll see this error.
Common Scenarios That Trigger This Error
There are several common scenarios that lead to this error appearing. Even experienced developers run into this frequently during the development process, especially when spinning up new applications. Here are a few scenarios where you’ll likely see this type of error pop up:
React
or
Vue
app calling an API
: Frontend at
https://myapp.com,
trying to call
https://api.myapp.com
Development server setup
: Local development at
http://localhost:3000,
calling a local API at
http://localhost:8080
Third-party API integration
: Your website is trying to call an external service that doesn’t allow your domain
Subdomain requests
:
www.example.com
trying to access
api.example.com
Of course, this CORS issue is just one of many issues that can pop up during development. So, to get closer to fixing it, we need to figure out the root causes for our particular app.
How to Diagnose The Error Cause?
When you encounter this error, you’ll want to do some quick checks to figure out what is causing it. Unfortunately, the error message itself generally doesn’t give a whole lot of context. Here are a few questions to ask to get down to the root cause:
Are you making a cross-origin request?
If you are using a different protocol (http vs https), domain, or port, then you’ll likely experience cross-origin issues.
Does the target server send CORS headers?
Check the Network tab in the browser and look for Access-Control-Allow-Origin in the response, which will show you the allowed origins for the requested resource.
Is your origin in the allowed list?
The header value should be either * (but use this wisely and intentionally, or it can be dangerous since it
allows all origins
) or your exact domain. If it’s not present, this would be the cause!
For complex requests
: Check to make sure that the server handles OPTIONS requests properly.
How to Fix This Error
There are two main approaches, depending on whether you control the server. The best way to do this is to fix this at the server level; however, it can sometimes also be done outside of the server.
Fixing at the API Server Level
The proper fix is to configure your server to send the right CORS headers. Here’s how for common frameworks:
In
Node.js
(Express)
, in your
app.use()
you would set the response header value for
Access-Control-Allow-Origin
to the desired value. This would likely be your frontend domain/URL, like this:
res.header('Access-Control-Allow-Origin', 'https://yourapp.com');
In full context, here is what that would look like more completely:
const express = require('express');
const app = express();
const allowedOrigins = ['https://yourapp.com', 'https://www.yourapp.com'];
app.use((req, res, next) => {
const origin = req.headers.origin;
if (allowedOrigins.includes(origin)) {
res.header('Access-Control-Allow-Origin', origin);
}
res.header('Access-Control-Allow-Methods', 'GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, OPTIONS');
res.header('Access-Control-Allow-Headers', 'Content-Type, Authorization');
if (req.method === 'OPTIONS') {
return res.status(200).end();
}
next();
});
In
Python (
Django
)
, you’d make a similar update to your code in the
middleware
or
views
components. Below you can see a method we created to
add_cors_headers
and then a check for pre-flight requests in the
handle_preflight
where we inject the correct CORS headers.
from django.http import HttpResponse
def add_cors_headers(response, allowed_origin):
response['Access-Control-Allow-Origin'] = allowed_origin
response['Access-Control-Allow-Methods'] = 'GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, OPTIONS'
response['Access-Control-Allow-Headers'] = 'Content-Type, Authorization'
return response
# For preflight requests
def handle_preflight(request):
if request.method == 'OPTIONS':
response = HttpResponse()
return add_cors_headers(response, 'https://yourapp.com')
As a last example, this is what these types of updates would look like in
C# (ASP.NET Core)
. Here, we would add some additional policy configuration in the
Startup.cs
file:
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
services.AddCors(options =>
{
options.AddPolicy("AllowSpecificOrigin",
builder => builder
.WithOrigins("https://yourapp.com")
.AllowAnyMethod()
.AllowAnyHeader());
});
}
public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IWebHostEnvironment env)
{
app.UseCors("AllowSpecificOrigin");
}
Potential Fixes Without Access to the API Server
If you’re calling a third-party API that doesn’t support CORS, you have a few options:
Use a proxy server
: Route requests through your own backend
Use JSONP
(if the API supports it, though this is legacy)
Browser extensions for development
(NOT for production)
Contact the API provider
to request CORS support
Essential CORS Headers Explained
As you probably noticed in the fixes above, there are quite a few different CORS headers that you can set. Although we have mainly focused on the
Access-Control-Allow-Origin
header, there are many other important ones that can help with overall security. Here is a quick breakdown of their names, purpose, and example values:
Header
Purpose
Example
Access-Control-Allow-Origin
Which domains can access this resource
https://yourapp.com
or *
Access-Control-Allow-Methods
Which HTTP methods are allowed
GET, POST, PUT, DELETE
Access-Control-Allow-Headers
Which request headers are allowed
Content-Type, Authorization
Access-Control-Allow-Credentials
Whether cookies/auth can be sent
true (only with specific origins)
Access-Control-Max-Age
How long to cache preflight results
3600 (seconds)
Common CORS Security Mistakes to Avoid
CORS does play a significant role in application and user security. There are many different ways to configure CORS that aren’t necessarily optimal. However, it can be hard to actually figure out if you’ve done something dangerous or insecure if you’re not aware (which is where
API security tools
like StackHawk, covered below, can give you a hand at finding out if you’ve misconfigured CORS). Let’s take a look at some of the most common security mistakes:
The Dangerous Wildcard (*)
This is probably one of the most commonly seen workarounds for developers. While doing this on your local machine might be okay, when deployed onto an actual environment (especially production), this is generally a big no-no. Here is what that looks like:
res.header('Access-Control-Allow-Origin', '*');
res.header('Access-Control-Allow-Credentials', 'true');
By doing this, you are allowing any website to make authenticated requests to your API.
Insufficient Origin Validation
This is another vulnerable configuration that may look secure on the surface. In the code below, it looks like we are only going to allow requests from
www.myapp.com
; however, declaring it this way is too permissive and actually more open than it seems.
if (origin.includes('myapp.com')) {
res.header('Access-Control-Allow-Origin', origin);
}
The caveat here is that even though this will allow requests from
www.myapp.com
to come through, this policy can also be bypassed by domains like
evil-myapp.com.malicious.com
.
Why Automated CORS Testing Matters
CORS misconfigurations are among the most common
security issues in modern web applications
. Manual testing often misses edge cases, and it’s easy to accidentally create security gaps while trying to fix functionality issues.
Luckily, platforms exist to help catch these common mistakes so they can be fixed before they have the chance to hit production. One of the most trusted security platforms for this type of testing is
StackHawk
. By using StackHawk to test for vulnerabilities in your applications and
APIs
, you get:
Early detection
of CORS issues during development
Automated testing
of complex CORS scenarios you might not think to test manually
Clear remediation guidance
with specific examples of vulnerable requests
Verification
that fixes don’t introduce new security issues
By integrating CORS security testing into your development workflow, you can ensure your cross-origin requests work reliably while keeping your application secure.
Validating Your CORS Configuration with StackHawk
Once you’ve implemented CORS headers, it’s crucial to ensure your configuration is both functional and secure. A common mistake is fixing the immediate CORS error but accidentally creating security vulnerabilities, like allowing credentials from any origin or being too permissive with allowed domains.
This is where automated security testing becomes invaluable. Instead of manually testing every possible CORS scenario and hoping you haven’t introduced security gaps, you can use StackHawk to automatically validate that your CORS implementation works correctly without creating new attack vectors.
StackHawk will test your CORS implementation for common security issues, including:
Wildcard origin acceptance with credentials
: Testing if your API dangerously accepts * as an origin while allowing credentials
Origin reflection vulnerabilities
: Checking if your API blindly reflects the Origin header without proper validation
Missing security headers
: Identifying CORS setups that lack proper CSRF protection
Overly permissive configurations
: Finding CORS policies that are broader than necessary
Instead of waiting for our AppSec team to let us know we have an issue later in development, let’s get StackHawk to identify this vulnerability for us automatically. To do this, you’ll need to ensure you have a StackHawk account. If you need one, you can
sign up for a trial account
or
log into an existing account.
If you’re logging into an existing StackHawk account, from the
Applications
screen, you’ll click
Add Application.
If you’re new to StackHawk, you’ll be automatically brought into the
Add an App
flow. On the
Scanner
screen, you’ll see the instructions for installing the StackHawk CLI. Since we will be running our testing locally, we will use this option. Once the
hawk init
command is executed successfully, click the
Next
button.
On the next screen, you will fill out an
Application Name
,
Environment
, and
URL
. Once filled out, click
Next
.
Since we will be testing a RESTful API, on the next page, we will choose our
Application Type
as “Dynamic Web Application/Single Page Application”.
Depending on what you have set up as a backend API, you’ll also plug these details in. For example, if you have a REST API running, you would set the
API Type
as “REST / OpenAPI”, and point to our OpenAPI Specification file by selecting
URL Path
and adding the path to where your OpenAPI spec is located in the textbox. Alternatively, as I’ve done here, we can also click “Skip for now” if you’re unsure. Once complete, click
Next
.
Lastly, we will need to add a
stackhawk.yml
file to the root of our project. Once the file is added, copy the screen’s contents, paste them into the file, and save it. Lastly, we can click the
Finish
button.
In our root directory, we should see the stackhawk.yml file we’ve added:
Lastly, depending on our scan policy, CORS misconfiguration detection may not be enabled. To ensure this, go back to StackHawk, navigate to the
Applications
page, and select your app. Once in the config page, click on the
Settings
tab, then the
Active Scan Plugins
tab just below it. Then, locate the
CORS Header
plugin in the list and check it off. You can find it easily by typing “cors” into the plugin search bar.
Lastly, click
Save
just above the
Plugins
list to save the new configuration.
Run HawkScan
Next, we can go ahead with testing our application. In a terminal pointing to the root of our project, we will run HawkScan using the following command:
hawk scan
After running the command, the tests should execute in the terminal.
Note that if you get an error similar to:
HawkScan Target Not Found Error: Unable to access https://localhost:4000. Check if the web server is listening on the specified port.
This means that your API is not running in HTTPS, and that is how HawkScan is trying to call the API. To fix this, either add HTTPS capabilities to your API or, more simply, go and change the
host
entry in your
stackhawk.yml
to only use “http”.
This will run tests against our React application and the corresponding backend. Once the tests have run, we can begin to explore anything that was found.
Explore The Initial Findings
Once the tests are complete, the terminal will contain some information about any vulnerabilities found. Below, we can see that StackHawk has found a few CORS vulnerabilities within my code that are present on multiple paths.
To explore this further, we will click on the test link at the bottom of the output. This will take us into the StackHawk platform to explore further.
After clicking on the link, we can now see the test results nicely formatted. Next, we will click on the
CORS Misconfiguration
entry.
Within this entry, we can see an
Overview
and
Resources
that can help us with fixing this vulnerability, as well as the
Request
and
Response
that the API returned on the right side of the screen. Above this, you will also see a
Validate
button, which will display a cURL command with the exact HTTP request used to expose the vulnerability.
Understanding and Fixing CORS Security Issues
When StackHawk finds CORS vulnerabilities, you’ll see detailed findings that show what paths are affected and potential remediation techniques (like those in the image above). Using the techniques in this guide or within StackHawk’s
remediation advice
for the vulnerability, you can then go ahead and make the needed adjustments in your code and configuration. Once fixed, make sure to stop your web servers and redeploy the latest code. Next, we can make sure that the fix implemented actually fixes our CORS misconfiguration issues.
Confirm the fix!
With the latest code deployed, let’s confirm the fix in StackHawk. To do this, we will click the
Rescan Findings
button back in
StackHawk
.
Then, we will see a modal containing the
“hawk rescan”
command that includes the correct
Scan ID
. You’ll run this command in the same terminal where you ran the initial set of tests.
In the output, you will again see any vulnerabilities found in the scan. In this case, you’ll see that the CORS misconfiguration vulnerabilities are no longer showing. Clicking on the link at the bottom of the terminal output, you can confirm that the CORS misconfiguration vulnerabilities have now been added to the
Fixed Findings from Previous Scan
, confirming that the vulnerability has been successfully fixed and has passed any vulnerability tests.
With that, we’ve successfully remedied and retested our application to ensure its safety from potential CORS misconfiguration attacks.
Conclusion
The “No ‘Access-Control-Allow-Origin’ header present” error is usually straightforward to fix by adding proper CORS headers to your server responses. The key is understanding whether you’re dealing with simple or complex requests, configuring your server to handle both scenarios appropriately, and validating origins properly to maintain security.
Remember: fixing CORS errors correctly means balancing functionality with security. Tools like StackHawk help ensure your CORS implementation works for legitimate requests while blocking potential security threats.
Want to ensure your CORS implementation is both functional and secure?
Sign up for StackHawk
today for a free 14-day trial to automatically test your CORS configuration and detect potential vulnerabilities.
More Hawksome Posts
What Anthropic’s Claude Code Security Actually Means for AppSec
Feb 20, 2026
|
AI Coding
,
Product Updates & News
How AppSec teams and the broader AppSec market should think about Claude Code Security.
How to Meet ISO 27001:2022 Requirements with StackHawk’s Shift-Left DAST
Feb 19, 2026
|
Compliance
ISO 27001:2022 fundamentally changed where and how often organizations need to prove their applications are being tested. Here’s how StackHawk supports AppSec team compliance goals.
What is API Discovery? Everything You Need to Know
Feb 13, 2026
|
API Security Testing
Undocumented APIs create real security gaps. Learn everything you need to know about how API discovery works to find hidden APIs and reduce attack surface risk.